# MODEL1004070000: haut

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1004070000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1004070000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This is the _Unlabelled_ model as described in:  
**Simulation of the Pentose Cycle in Lactating Rat Mammary Gland**   
Haut MJ , London JW , Garfinkel D _Biochem J._ 1974,138(3), 511-524. PMID:
[4154746](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/4154746 ) ;PMCID:
[PMC1166237](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC1166237)  
Abstract:  
A computer model representing the pentose cycle, the tricarboxylic acid cycle
and glycolysis in slices of lactating rat mammary glands has been constructed.
This model is based primarily on the studies, with radioactive chemicals, of
Abraham and Chaikoff (1959) [although some of the discrepant data of Katz and
Wals (1972) could be accommodated by changing one enzyme activity]. Data
obtained by using [1-(14)C]-, [6-(14)C]- and [3,4-(14)C]-glucose were
simulated, as well as data obtained by using unlabelled glucose (for which
some new experimental data are presented). Much past work on the pentose cycle
has been mainly concerned with the division of glucose flow between the
pentose cycle and glycolysis, and has relied on the assumption that the system
is in steady state (both labelled and unlabelled). This assumption may not
apply to lactating rat mammary glands, since the model shows that the
percentage flow through the shunt progressively decreased for the first 2h of
a 3h experiment, and we were unable to construct a completely steady-state
model. The model allows examination of many quantitative features of the
system, especially the amount of material passing through key enzymes, some of
which appear to be regulated by NADP(+) concentrations as proposed by McLean
(1960). Supplementary information for this paper has been deposited as
Supplementary Publication SUP 50023 at the British Museum (Lending Division)
(formerly the National Lending Library for Science and Technology), Boston
Spa, Yorks. LS23 7BQ, U.K., from whom copies can be obtained on the terms
indicated in Biochem. J. (1973) 131, 5.

All reactions are modelled as mass action, reactions labelled 1-30 in the
order they appear in Scheme 1. Note that the unit of substance is micromole
per 0.5g wet weight of tissue. Simulation reproduces results in tables 5 and
6.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not. .  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


